“I am delighted to be here amidst all of you today. I am aware that Wellington is home to Defence Services
Staff College (DSSC), the oldest and most prestigious tri-services institution of the nation. DSSC’s sterling
contribution to training and educating the future leaders of armed forces of India and friendly foreign
countries and selected civilian officers, is admirable indeed.
I am also happy to see amongst you the officers and soldiers of the Madras Regiment which has a glorious
history of more than 275 years. I am aware that the Madras Regimental Centre has trained and contributed
some of the finest men to the Indian Army who have time and again proved their worth in peace and war
with distinction. The endless list of battle honours and citations to the regiment’s credit bears ample
testimony to this fact. I am also aware that the medical fraternity of the Military Hospital Wellington,some of
whose members are here in this gathering, have rendered exemplary service to the Defence services
fraternity stationed in Wellington Cantonment.
The healthy, salubrious climate of Nilgiris and the association of Wellington with the armed forces has made
this place a favoured retirement abode for veterans including our late Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw. I am
happy to see some of you in the audience here.We value and respect immensely the contribution of each one
of you towards nation building.
Dear friends,
Today, as you are aware, India is facing multiple security challenges in a highly complex and unpredictable
geo-political environment. We are facing both symmetric and asymmetric threats from outside and within.
Therefore, our armed forces should be fully prepared to handle any challenge and repel any security threat
firmly. Historically, India has never been expansionist in its outlook.Our approach has always been of
peaceful coexistence and one designed to deter the forces of terror and disruption. The nation is confident
that any attempt to challenge India’s sovereignty by inimical forces would be dealt with strongly by our
security forces.
